we begin in Gaza where homeless grieving
and terrified Palestinians are hoping
that the latest International efforts
will bring about a ceasefire the
political leader of Hamas ishah is
expected in the Egyptian Capital KIRO to
review a proposal that was put forward
in Paris over the weekend a temporary
halt in fighting could allow for more
Aid deliveries into Gaza while more
Israeli captives could be released in
exchange for Palestinian prisoners
on the ground though there's been no
letup in fighting rescue efforts are on
going after another night of Israeli
bombardments across the strip in a
moment we'll go to Rory Chalin he's an
occupied East Jerusalem for us to get
Israeli reaction on proposals for a
ceasefire first let's go live to hany
Mahmud he's in Rafa in southern Gaza
hany has news of possible ceasefire
agreement reached where you are what are
people saying about
it
yes melan well people are uh looking
forward to hearing more constructive
reports about The a possible ceasefire
and a possible end to the ongoing war on
on the Gaza Strip they're looking into
an end all hostilities and and into the
masing of Palestinians as it's happening
right now now despite the ongoing
bombing campaigns within the past two
days that has intensified across the G
STP mainly in KH Unis and the northern
part of the Gaza Strip people are still
hopeful that those emerging reports
started to come out within the past two
days are going in fact to lead into an
agreement between the Palestinians
particularly fighting groups and Hamas
mainly and the Israeli side that will
include not only in the war and an
immediate ceasefire increase in the
humanitarian uh aid but also release of
all Palestinian prisoners including
those who were detained from Gaza the
the northern part as the war was as the
war still continuing including miners in
exchange of course for the release of
the Israeli captives inside the the Gaza
STP people are hopeful they're looking
forward to having that in fact here all
day long we get more questions from
people who are passing by our sites and
and just judging from the the number of
questions and the level of of of
questionings that we get is that they
are eager as they are growing tired
exhausted they traumatized and they want
an end to their displacement they don't
want it to be permanent they want to be
able to go back to their homes in the
northern part in Gaza c as they have
been displaced for four months right now
and it's it's about time they said as we
hear from them to go back and to look
after their family mainly provide them
with with the most secret thing they
have been entrusted on providing them
which is protection and safety as so far
they are lacking any sense of security
and safety as they are squeezed in the
overcrowded part of the gas STP in in
Rafa City yeah it's no surprise that
they are desperate for a ceasefire
because there's been again more
overnight Israeli raids across Gaza at
talk us through the situation on the
ground the aftermath particularly at the
hospitals which have been under
siege yes well that's exactly the
torture before death and that's what
have people have been frustrated about
despite the the talks and the emerging
reports about a possible deal between
the Palestinians and the the Israeli
side is just the they seeing more
intense bombing campaign and
particularly around the city of Han unun
and around vicinity of hospitals for the
third time Hospital have been stormed by
this really military the large deal of
the facilities and the properties were
severely damaged more people are being
injured and more people killed inside
the the facility including displaced
Palestinians and and
employed security guard employed by the
Palestinian Rick Crescent the hospital
in a statement said that they're dealing
with a
more than 10 critically injured displ
Palestinians inside the the facility
including since the past 12 hours almost
12 people were killed inside the
facility the the the situations around
Naser Hospital not are no different
there is more fighting going on more
bombing to the vicinity of the hospital
and its
facilities the courtyard is mainly taken
over by attack drones quad capts that
are preventing any movements inside the
hospital in addition the the fact that
it it's an intense finding most of the
medical staff have have has already left
the hospital so we're talking about
large number of injuries of people
inside the facility but a small and
insufficient number of medical staff
that is unable to provide any sufficient
medical attention whatsoever in the
Central Area also reports of more
residential buildings being targeted in
an and Al ra camp and this is the
pattern we've been seeing since the
beginning of the war we have refugee
camps particularly in the central area
and the northern part repeatedly attacks
and with with large amount of Firepower
and attack aggressively impact okay
thank you for that hanim Mahmud there
for us in southern Gaza let's go now to
Rory challeng he's an occupied eism for
us Rory so a lot of debate in the last
24 hours or so about a possible
ceasefire deal would what are you
hearing where you
are yeah it's worth a recap isn't it
because the humanitarian and the
military aspects of this proposed deal
are kind of overlaid by many tears of
politics so let's go through them
hamas's position is that they will only
agree to a deal which ultimately sees an
end to the War uh an Israeli military
pull out of Gaza an enter the siege of
Gaza and a serious uh prisoner exchange
process Benjamin Netanyahu says that he
won't agree to a deal that ends the war
so the war from his perspective will go
on the Israeli military will stay in
Gaza and as he puts it they will not
release thousands of terrorists but
Netanyahu is under huge pressure from
the far right flanks of his own
governing Coalition and particularly
it's Amar Ben gavier the national
security minister does not trust
Netanyahu over any deal thinks that he's
trying to pull what he's calling a goat
Clause kind of sneak his way to
something that the far rights will not
find acceptable and he says that he is
willing to pull out of the governing
Coalition if Netanyahu signs up to
something that releases thousands and
thousands of what Ben uh Ben Vehicles
murderers essentially
so into all of this Wades y laid the
opposition leader main opposition leader
who says that he is willing to offer
Netanyahu a safety net not to save
Netanyahu himself but to save the
captives he believes that it's the
captives that should be kept at the top
of everyone's agenda here and that
that's the most important thing getting
those captives out of Gaza everyone here
is setting their red lines everyone is
is talking to their own particular
audiences there is no easy solution uh
and as we go forward if we get to a deal
it's likely that many of these red lines
are going to be quietly forgotten if
this is anything like the previous deal
back in uh the Autumn of last year then
we might not find out the details of it
until very late in the day possibly only
once the actual exchanges and the
ceasefire uh has begun because nothing
is really written in stone yet indeed uh
a slightly different uh matter there's
been more Israeli criticism of unra the
United Nations Palestinian refugee
agency uh what does the Prime Minister
had to say about it
again yeah we know as we have done for a
long time that Netanyahu is no fan of
anra this relief agency that basically
looks after the humanitarian Affairs of
of many many hundreds of thousands
of Palestinians in Gaza there has been
uh this campaign against anra uh the uh
release of information showing that anra
employees as the Israeli say were uh
members of or at least assisting in the
Hamas attacks of October the 7th so
Netanyahu most recently has been
briefing ambassadors of the UN who have
come here and he's basically mean
telling them that unra needs to be
disbanded says that the mission has to
end anr's mission he says that anra is
self-perpetuating I.E it keeps alive the
the Palestinian refugee issue therefore
meaning that the agency that looks after
Palestinian refugees is essential he
says that anra has helped South Africa
in its case against Israel at the
international court of justice and as we
hear now from Netanyahu in this
particular sound bite he's also saying
that anat self has been riddled
essentially with
there are other agencies in the UN there
are other agencies in the world they
have to replace onra onra is totally
infiltrated with Kamas it has been in
the service of Kamas in its schools and
in many other things I say this with
great regret because we hope that there
would be uh an objective and
constructive body to offer
aid but is not just reserving criticism
for unra he's also criticizing the
entirety of the UN which he thinks has
been unfair in its treatment of Israel
he says that there are parts of the
world he names Iran and Yemen where
there is as he puts it savagery and
aggression and that therefore the un's
dealing with Israel and its issues with
the Palestinian territories is
biased okay thank you for that Rory
challenge there for us and occupy the
East Jerusalem